Parents bring an 11-month-old baby to the clinic because the baby has a fever of 39.0°C (102.2°F). The baby is irritated and crying constantly. She is up to date on immunizations. A complete physical examination reveals no significant findings, and all laboratory tests are negative. Five days after resolution of her fever, she develops a transient maculopapular rash. What is the most likely diagnosis?,, A) Roseola B) Erythema infectiosum C) Rubella D) Kawasaki disease,, A
A 6-year-old African-American boy presents with severe pain and swelling of both his hands and wrists. His symptoms on- set 2 days ago and have not improved. He also has had diarrhea for the last 2 days and looks dehydrated. This patient has had two similar episodes of severe pain in the past. Physical examina- tion reveals pallor, jaundice, dry mucous membranes, and sunken eyes. Which of the following mutations is most consistent with this patient’s clinical condition?,, A) Chromosomal deletion B) Nonsense C) Missense D) Frame shift,, C
A 12-month-old girl is brought in by her mother to the pediatri- cian for the first time since her 6-month checkup. The mother states that her daughter had been doing fine, but the parents are now concerned that their daughter is still not able to stand up or speak. On exam, the patient has a temperature of 98.5°F (36.9°C), pulse is 96/min, respirations are 20/min, and blood pressure is 100/80 mmHg. The child appears to have difficulty supporting herself while sitting. The patient has no other abnor- mal physical findings. She plays by herself and is making bab- bling noises but does not respond to her own name. She appears to have some purposeless motions. A previous clinic note doc- uments typical development at her 6-month visit and mentioned that the patient was sitting unsupported at that time. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?,, A) Language disorder B) Rett syndrome C) Fragile X syndrome D) Trisomy 21,, B
A 35-year-old man presents with loose stools and left lower quad- rant abdominal pain. He says he passes 8–10 loose stools per day. The volume of each bowel movement is small and appears mu- coid with occasional blood. The patient reports a 20-pack-year smoking history. He also says he recently traveled abroad about 3 weeks ago to Egypt. The vital signs include: blood pressure 120/76 mm Hg, pulse 74/min, and temperature 36.5°C (97.8°F). On physical examination, mild to moderate tenderness to palpation in the left lower quadrant with no rebound or guarding is present. Rectal examination shows the presence of perianal skin ulcers. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis in this patient?,, A) Amebiasis B) Crohn’s disease C) Salmonellosis D) Divertic- ulosis,, A
A 24-year-old G2P1 woman at 39 weeks’ gestation presents to the emergency department complaining of painful contractions occurring every 10 minutes for the past 2 hours, consistent with latent labor. She says she has not experienced vaginal discharge, bleeding, or fluid leakage, and is currently taking no medica- tions. On physical examination, her blood pressure is 110/70 mm Hg, heart rate is 86/min, and tempera- ture is 37.6°C (99.7°F). She has had little prenatal care and uses condoms inconsistently. Her sexually trans- mitted infections status is unknown. As part of the patient’s workup, she undergoes a series of rapid screen- ing tests that result in the administration of zidovudine during delivery. The infant is also given zidovudine to reduce the risk of transmission. A confirmatory test is then performed in the mother to confirm the diagnosis of HIV. Which of the following is most true about the confirmatory test?,, A) It is a Southwestern blot, identifying the presence of DNA-binding proteins B) It is a Northern blot, identifying the presence of RNA C) It is a Northern blot, identifying the presence of DNA D) It is an HIV-1/HIV2 antibody differentiation immunoassay,, D
A 40-year-old female with a past medical history of high cholesterol, high blood pressure, hyperthyroidism, and asthma presents to the primary care clinic today. She has tried several different statins, all of which have resulted in bothersome side effects. Her current medications include hydrochlorothiazide, levothyroxine, albuterol, oral contraceptives, and a multivitamin. Her physical examination is unremarkable. Her blood pressure is 116/82 mm Hg and her heart rate is 82/min. You decide to initiate colesevelam (Welchol). Of the following, which is a concern with the initiation of this medication?,, A) Colesevelam can cause cognitive impairment. B) Colesevelam can increase the risk of cholelithiasis.C) Timing of the dosing of colesevelam should be separated from this patient’s other medications,, C
A 79-year-old woman comes to the physician because of a 1-month history of difficulty starting urination and a vague sensation of fullness in the pelvis. Pelvic speculum exam- ination in the lithotomy position shows a pink structure at the vaginal introitus that protrudes from the anterior vaginal wall when the patient is asked to cough. Which of the following is the most likely cause of this patient’s symptoms?,, A) Vaginal rhabdomyosarcoma B) Cystocele C) Rectocele D) Uterine leiomyomata,, B
A 22-year-old woman comes to the physician for a routine health examination. She feels well but asks for advice about smoking cessation. She has smoked one pack of cigarettes daily for 7 years. She has tried to quit several times without success. During the previous attempts, she has been extremely nervous and also gained weight. She has also tried nicotine lozenges but stopped taking them because of severe headaches and insomnia. She has bulimia nervosa. She takes no medications. She is 168 cm (5 ft 6 in) tall and weighs 68 kg (150 lb); BMI is 24 kg/m2. Physical and neurologic examinations show no other abnormalities. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?,, A) Diazepam B) Nicotine patch C) Varenicline D) Motivational interviewing,, C
A 17-year-old girl comes to the physician because of an 8-month history of severe acne vulgaris over her face, upper back, arms, and buttocks. Treatment with oral antibiotics and topical combination therapy with benzoyl peroxide and retinoid has not completely resolved her symptoms. Examination shows oily skin with numerous comedones, pustules, and scarring over the face and upper back. Long-term therapy is started with combined oral contraceptive pills. This medication decreases the patient’s risk developing of which of the following conditions?,, A) Hypertension B) Ovarian cancer C) Cervical cancer D) Breast cancer,, B
A 56-year-old patient is being treated with oral amoxicillin for community- acquired pneumonia. The plasma clearance of the drug is calculated as 15.0 L/h. Oral bioavailability of the drug is 75%. Sensitivity analysis of a sputum culture shows a minimal inhibitory concentra- tion of 1 μg/mL for the causative pathogen. The target plasma concentration is 2 mg/L. If the drug is administered twice per day, which of the following dosages should be administered at each dosing interval to maintain a steady state? ,, A) 270 mg B) 480 mg C) 240,, B
A 16-year-old boy is brought to the emergency department by ambulance from a soccer game. During the game, he was about to kick the ball when another player collided with his leg from the front. He was unable to stand up after this collision and reported severe knee pain. On presentation, he was found to have a mild knee effusion. Physical exam showed that his knee could be pushed posteriorly at 90 degrees of flexion but it could not be pulled anteriorly in the same position. The anatomic structure that was most likely injured in this patient has which of the following characteristics?,, A) Runs anteriorly from the medial femoral condyle B) Runs medially from the lateral femoral condyle C) Runs posteriorly from the lateral femoral condyle D) Runs posteriorly from the medial femoral condyle,, D
An 18-year-old woman is brought to the emergency department because of light- headedness and a feeling of dizziness. She has had nausea, occasional episodes of vomiting, myal- gia, and a generalized rash for the past week. She also reports feeling lethargic. She has no shortness of breath. There is no family history of serious illness. She appears ill. Her temperature is 39.1 ̋C (102.3 ̋F), pulse is 118/min, and blood pressure is 94/60 mm Hg. Cardiac examination shows no ab- normalities. There is a widespread erythematous rash on the trunk and extremities with skin peeling on the palms and soles. Laboratory studies show: Hemoglobin 13.6 g/dL Leukocyte count 19,300/mm3, Platelet count 98,000/mm3, Serum Urea nitrogen 47 mg/dL Glucose 88 mg/dL Creatinine 1.8 mg/dLTotal bilirubin 2.1 mg/dL AST 190 U/L ALT 175 U/L, Urinalysis shows no abnormalities. Further evaluation of this patient’s history is most likely to reveal which of the following?,, A) Recent hiking trip B) Intravenous heroin abuse C) Exposure to a patient with mengingococcemia D) Currently menstruating,, D
A 27-year-old HIV positive female gave birth to a 7lb 2oz (3.2 kg) baby girl. The obstetrician is worried that the child may have been infected due to the mother’s haphazard use of her anti-retroviral medications. Which of the following assays would a hospital use detect the genetic material of HIV if the child had been infected?,, A) Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) B) Rapid HIV antibody test C) Polymerase chain reaction D) Southern blot,, C
A 28-year-old male presents to the emergency department with chest pain. He reports that one hour ago he was climbing the stairs in his home when he suddenly developed excruciating chest pain. He describes the pain as ripping and radiating to the back. The patient’s past medical history is significant for a heart murmur that is being followed by his outpatient cardiologist. He takes no medications. The patient works as a carpenter and reports being monogamous with his wife. He denies any history of intravenous drug use or recent travel. In the emergency department, the patient’s temperature is 99.4°F (37.4°C), blood pressure is 94/56 mmHg, pulse is 121/min, and respirations are 14/min. On physical exam, the patient appears to be in moderate distress and is clutching his chest. He is tall and has joint hypermobility. His breath sounds are equal and full bilaterally and has weak distal pulses. Which of the following is most likely to be found in this patient?,, A) Holosystolic, high-pitched blowing murmur at the lower left sternal border B) Late systolic crescendo murmur at the apex with mid-systolic click C) Mid-diastolic murmur at the left lower sternal border D) Systolic ejection murmur at the right second intercostal space,, B